If you ask a boss or co-worker
how their week has been,
it's not surprising to get some version of this response.
Busy. Big ambitions create big to do lists,
and sometimes we misguidedly sacrifice our sanity
and personal schedules in the name of career success.
But what if it didn't have to be this way?
What if, you could accomplish your professional goals
in less time and with more breaks?
Here are seven time management tips
that can turn this fantasy into reality.
Use these tips to stop being busy
and start being productive at work.
The first tip is to set daily and weekly goals.
In other words, create a plan.
What do you need to accomplish by the end of the week?
And what do you have to do each day
to make that happen?
Commit to your weekly and daily goals
by making sure they're realistic.
It's easy to focus on just a few goals per week or per day.
Setting daily and weekly goals
can help you establish priorities,
determine what's essential,
and then plan your day accordingly.
Which leads us to our next tip,
and that's to tackle your top priorities first.
Resist the urge to knock out a few easy wins
before tackling your most audacious goals for the day.
Instead, do your work in order of priority.
That means starting with your most important
tasks of the day,
even if they're also the most daunting
or overwhelming.
The third tip is to group similar tasks
and avoid multitasking.
For example, avoid checking your email every time
you receive a notification.
Instead, schedule a set time each day
that's devoted entirely to checking
and responding to emails.
Or try lumping together several meetings on the same day
or during the same part of the day.
For example, you might limit meeting to Tuesdays
and Thursday afternoons.
Finally, avoid multitasking or task switching.
Instead, work on one task at a time.
Also group tasks together that require similar skills,
such as tasks that involve editing
or reviewing other's work.
Fourth, is to schedule everything in your work day
using an online calendar.
Schedule work meetings and personal appointments,
as well as buffer time
between those meetings or appointments.
Also, scheduled time
to work on specific projects uninterrupted.
The more you block time out on your calendar,
the easier it will be to protect your time
and distribute it to the projects that matter most.
Speaking of scheduling everything.
Also use your online calendar
to schedule regular breaks.
Well, it may sound counterintuitive,
taking regular breaks
can actually increase productivity and creativity.
In contrast, working long stretches without breaks,
may slow you down
and lead to mental exhaustion over time.
Mental exhaustion can also come in the form of overthinking
or over analyzing your work.
That's where our sixth tip comes in handy.
The sixth tip is to set time limits for yourself.
Determine how long you want to spend on a task
and stick to it.
Set a timer or stopwatch if needed.
Time limits create a sense of urgency
that can help focus your attention
and cut out distractions.
They can also combat over editing
and analysis paralysis.
Finally, the last tip is to determine your prime time.
You can do that by answering the following questions.
When do you feel the most motivated
or energized at work?
When do you do your best work?
What hours of the day are you most productive?
And are there any times of the day,
when your energy or motivation levels drop?
Whether you feel most productive
and energized in the mornings or afternoons,
determine your prime time
and maximize it.
Block or protect your prime time
from routine meetings, emails
or other low priority tasks.
Instead, schedule your most challenging
and energy consuming projects
when you're feeling your best.
Being busy is not always a good thing.
The real question you should ask yourself is,
am I using my time productively?
Follow these seven time management tips
to increase your productivity at work
and decrease the amount of time it takes
to accomplish the same goals.